Blog: So You Received a Security Report. Now What? (#313)
ThePHPF/thephp.foundation: source/_posts/2026-08-11-so-you-received-a-security-report-now-what.md

---
title: "So You Received a Security Report. Now What?"
description: "A guide for PHP project maintainers, from the PHP Foundation Ecosystem Security Team"
layout: post
tags:
    - security

>     - SIGs

Reviewer: Don't know what SIGs stands for. Saw the tag on other posts though so I assume it's fine.

Reviewer 2: See the tags on https://thephp.foundation/blog/2026/08/03/kicking-off-the-php-onboarding-initiative/

author:
  - sebastian-bergmann
published_at: 11 August 2026
---
**A guide for PHP project maintainers, from the PHP Foundation Ecosystem Security Team**

> You maintain a PHP project. Someone (maybe Volker from the PHP Foundation, maybe an
> independent researcher) has just told you that your project may have a security
> vulnerability. You might be feeling overwhelmed, or unsure whether you can trust the
> report, or simply unsure what the correct next step is.
>
> Take a breath. **Nothing bad has happened yet.** A report is not a breach. It is a
> head start: someone is telling you privately about a problem so that you can fix it
> before anyone gets hurt. This guide walks you through the whole process, and it
> ends with concrete steps to make your project more resilient for the next time.

> >

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Take a breath. **Nothing bad has happened.** A report is not a breach. It is a
> head start: someone is telling you privately about a potential problem.
> You have time to validate it, assess it and you get to decide what to do next. 
> This guide walks you through the whole process, and it
> ends with concrete steps to make your project more resilient for the next time.
>
```

I didn't like the "yet" and "people getting hurt". Feels too emotional for the context in which people might read this document.

well does not mean dropping everything or working weekends. It means following a small
number of steps in the right order, at a pace you can sustain. You do not owe anyone
heroics; see [Open Source Maintainers Owe You
Nothing](https://mikemcquaid.com/open-source-maintainers-owe-you-nothing/).

---

## Cheatsheet

The whole process on one screen. Details in the numbered sections below.

1. **Don't panic, don't go public.** Keep the vulnerability private until a fix is
   released. → [§1](#1.-do-not-panic-and-do-not-go-public)
2. **Acknowledge the report** within a few days, even before you have assessed it.
   → [§2](#2.-acknowledge-the-report)
3. **Triage:** understand the claim, then decide: valid, invalid, or out of scope.
   → [§3](#3.-triage-the-report)
4. **Reproduce safely.** Never run proof-of-concept code on your own machine; use an
   isolated environment. → [§4](#4.-handle-proof-of-concept-code-safely)
5. **Fix privately.** Use a temporary private fork; do not push to any public branch.
   → [§5](#5.-prepare-the-fix-privately)
6. **Write the advisory.** For Composer packages: ecosystem = **Composer**, package

>    name exactly as on Packagist, affected-version ranges precise. Composer will

Reviewer: This sentence reads oddly to me. Both "package" and "ranges" could be either a noun or verb, and I don't know which is the correct way to interpret it.

   announce. → [§7](#7.-coordinate-the-release-and-publication)
8. **Wrap up:** credit the reporter, check older branches, do a short retrospective.
   → [§8](#8.-wrap-up)
9. **Improve your posture** so the next report is easier: SECURITY.md, private
   vulnerability reporting, 2FA, hardened CI. → [§9](#9.-improving-your-security-posture-for-the-long-term)
10. **Ask for help** whenever you are unsure. → [§10](#10.-getting-help)

---

## 1. Do not panic and do not go public

*You are here if: a report just landed and your pulse went up.*

The single most important principle is **coordinated disclosure**: the details of a
vulnerability stay private until a fixed version exists and users can protect
themselves. The moment the details are public, every attacker in the world has them,
and your users do not yet have a fix. So until you publish:

- **Do not** open a public issue about it, reference it in a public pull request, or
  mention it in a public commit message.
- **Do not** push a fix to `main` or any public branch. A commit titled "fix SQL
  injection in login handler" *is* the disclosure.
- **Do not** post about it on social media, a blog, or a mailing list. Not even a

>   vague "big security release coming soon": teasers invite people to go looking.

Reviewer: I think some projects do announce when coming releases are security releases so people can be prepared to update as fast as possible. So I wouldn't say that's necessarily a bad thing.

Reviewer 2: Agreed. I think it makes sense to acknowledge the need to inform people in this sentence with a brief "there are structured ways of announcing an upcoming patch - if needed"

- **Do not** go silent on the reporter either. Silence is how well-meaning reporters
  become frustrated reporters who eventually publish on their own.

Also worth internalizing early: **a report is a claim, not a verdict.** It may be a
serious finding, a minor issue, a duplicate, a bug without security impact, or simply
wrong. Part of your job in the next steps is to find out which, and *you* make that
call, ideally in dialogue with the reporter.

If the report came from the PHP Foundation Ecosystem Security Team, it has already
been through triage and usually comes with a reproducer. That raises the odds it is
real, but it does not take the decision away from you.

## 2. Acknowledge the report

*You are here if: you have read the report once and have not replied yet.*

Reply quickly, even if you have nothing substantial to say yet. A short message buys
you time and goodwill:

> Thanks for the report. I've received it and will look into it. I maintain this
> project in my spare time, so please allow up to two weeks for a first assessment.

> > I'll get back to you here.

Reviewer 2: I'd remove the two weeks from here and say say "as soon as possible" and rephrase the test below to say "if you know you can keep a commitment , it's nice to include a timeframe". But keep the copy paste response easy.

That is genuinely all it takes. Set expectations you can actually meet: "two weeks"
kept is better than "tomorrow" broken. If the report arrived by email but your
repository has [GitHub Private Vulnerability
Reporting](https://docs.github.com/en/code-security/security-advisories/guidance-on-reporting-and-writing-information-about-vulnerabilities/privately-reporting-a-security-vulnerability)
enabled (see [§9](#9.-improving-your-security-posture-for-the-long-term)), this is a

> good moment to move the conversation there: it keeps discussion, patch, and timeline

Reviewer: > and timeline

Sadly, GHSA is not particularly well suited for release/disclosure planning. As in, it simply doesn't exist. You can of course verbally communicate what you're planning to do.

in one private place.

## 3. Triage the report

*You are here if: you have acknowledged the report and now need to decide what it is.*

Read the report carefully and try to answer four questions:

1. **What is the claimed weakness?** (e.g. SQL injection, path traversal, insecure
   deserialization, often given as a [CWE](https://cwe.mitre.org/) identifier)
2. **Who can trigger it, and from where?** Does it require an authenticated admin, or
   can any anonymous user on the internet trigger it? Does it require unusual
   configuration?
3. **What can an attacker actually achieve?** Reading data, modifying data, executing
   code, denial of service?

> 4. **Which versions are affected?** Including old release branches people still use.

Reviewer: Branches might not be the most accurate word to use, maybe "major/minor versions" would be clearer.

  attacker controls that config value? In my project, they never do"), say so. That
  discussion is the most valuable part of triage.
- **"Works as designed" is a legitimate answer.** If exploiting the issue requires the
  attacker to already have capabilities that your documented security model says are
  trusted, it may not be a vulnerability in your project. Explain your reasoning to
  the reporter; if they disagree, the Ecosystem Security Team can act as a neutral
  second opinion.
- **A real bug without security impact is still worth fixing**, just through your
  normal, public process, without an advisory.

If the volume or quality of reports is a problem in itself (for example, a flood of
low-effort AI-generated reports), that is exactly one of the things the Ecosystem
Security Team exists to help with. Forward them; do not let them eat your motivation.

## 4. Handle proof-of-concept code safely

*You are here if: the report includes a script, a payload, a crafted file, or
step-by-step exploitation instructions.*

This section exists because it is the mistake with the worst possible failure mode.

> **Never run proof-of-concept code directly on your own machine.** Not "just this

Reviewer: 👀🤫

user account can compromise all of it. For a maintainer, that is not just a personal
problem: **your credentials are a supply-chain attack on everyone who installs your
package.**

And remember what a PoC *is*: a program written by a stranger, designed to break
software. Treat it with exactly the suspicion that description deserves. Even an
honest reporter's PoC may delete files, open network connections, or hammer your CPU
as a side effect of demonstrating the bug.

Instead, reproduce in an **isolated, disposable environment**:

- **A well-secured virtual machine** is the recommended baseline: a fresh VM with a
  current OS, no credentials or personal data inside, no shared folders into your host,
  clipboard sharing disabled, and a snapshot taken *before* you run anything so you can
  roll back afterwards. If the PoC does not need internet access, disable networking
  entirely, or restrict it to host-only.
- **A container** (Docker/Podman) is convenient for typical PHP-level issues and fine
  for most web-application-class vulnerabilities. Be aware that containers share the
  host kernel, so for anything that smells like memory corruption, native extensions,

>   or kernel interaction, prefer a real VM.

Reviewer 2: Docker Desktop on macOS or Windows typically runs Linux containers inside a lightweight Linux VM. So does OrbStack. So does Docker Sandbox.

I'd much rather tell people how to use sbx and make the distinctions here. A container is, imho, way better than "eh, setting up a VM is too much effort. Something easy that they're possibly more familiar with.

- **A cloud throwaway** (a short-lived VM at any provider, destroyed afterwards) works
  too, as long as no credentials of yours live on it.

Inside the isolated environment, the workflow is simple: check out the affected
version of your project, install dependencies, run the PoC, observe. Read the PoC
before running it. Not as a substitute for isolation, but because understanding
*how* it triggers the bug is exactly the insight you need for the fix and, later, for

> a regression test.

Reviewer: Usually the regression test comes first. After the fix, you wouldn't be able to verify the test anymore. Of course you can switch back to the old branch, but I'd find it more logical to flip the order.

In my case, I usually do this as part of verifying and accepting the issue, since I cannot accept something that I cannot reproduce.

  Building reproducers in isolated environments is one of the Ecosystem Security
  Team's core services.

## 5. Prepare the fix privately

*You are here if: the issue is confirmed and you are ready to write code.*

GitHub Security Advisories give you a **temporary private fork** for exactly this
purpose. On the advisory page, click *"Start a temporary private fork"*. Then:

1. Develop the fix in the private fork and open the pull request **there**, never
   against your public repository.
2. Keep commit messages neutral while working; the advisory will tell the full story
   later. (Referencing the GHSA ID in the final commit is fine, since it only resolves
   to something public after publication.)
3. Write a **regression test** that fails on the vulnerable code and passes with the
   fix. This is the part of the work that keeps paying off: the bug can never quietly
   come back. If the PoC helped you understand the issue, distill it into a safe,
   minimal test case. The test should demonstrate the *condition*, not ship a
   working exploit.
4. Invite the reporter as a collaborator on the advisory and let them verify the fix.

>    They found the hole; they are the best-qualified person to confirm it is closed.

Reviewer: I don't object to this wording, but that's far from the truth nowadays.

5. Decide **which release branches** get the fix. If you still support older major
   versions, users on those versions deserve a patched release too, or an explicit

>    statement in the advisory that they must upgrade.

Reviewer: Maybe add something like:

> Severity, age of the older version, and effort required to upgrade should all influence your decision on whether to backport a fix.

Gotchas that bite first-timers:

- CI does not run in temporary private forks. Run your test suite locally (in a safe
  environment) before merging.
- Don't `git push --no-verify` out of habit. Hooks that scan for secrets or enforce
  checks exist for days exactly like this one.
- Publishing the advisory **deletes the temporary private fork**. Make sure everything

>   you need (the commits, the discussion outcomes) has landed before you publish.

Reviewer: Is this true? I believe it made me explicitly delete the fork before it allowed me to publish.

- **Do not fix silently.** A patch released without an advisory leaves every
  downstream user blind: `composer audit` won't warn them, Dependabot won't open a PR,

>   and most will never upgrade. The advisory is not an admission of failure; it is the

Reviewer: > and most will never upgrade

That's probably an overstatement. Maybe it's better to say that most people do not regularly update dependencies and will remain vulnerable until they do.

(If the report arrived via private vulnerability reporting, the draft advisory
already exists; you edit that one rather than creating a new one.) This section
focuses on the part the walkthrough cannot do for you: what to put *into* the fields.

The advisory is a machine-readable document as much as a human-readable one. Tools
across the ecosystem, among them the [GitHub Advisory
Database](https://github.com/advisories), [OSV.dev](https://osv.dev/), Dependabot,
Packagist, and `composer audit`, consume it to warn your users automatically. Getting
the metadata right is what makes that machinery work.

**For PHP packages installable via Composer, the crucial details are:**

- **Ecosystem: select `Composer`.** Not "Other", not "GitHub Actions", not left empty.
  Only advisories filed under the Composer ecosystem are matched against
  `composer.json`/`composer.lock` files, which is what makes `composer audit` and
  Dependabot alerts fire for your users.
- **Package name: the exact Packagist name**, in `vendor/package` form. For example
  `phpunit/phpunit`, not `PHPUnit` and not the GitHub repository slug if it differs.

>   A typo here silently breaks the matching.

Reviewer 2: `"https://packagist.org/packages/" . $packageName` should resolve to your package: https://packagist.org/packages/phpunit/phpunit

- **Affected version ranges: precise and Composer-flavored**, e.g.
  `>= 10.0.0, < 10.5.17`, and one *Affected product* entry per affected release
  series if you patched several (a single field cannot hold multiple ranges). The
  exact syntax has non-obvious rules (supported operators, spacing, how suffixes
  like `-beta1` are ordered), documented in GitHub's [Best practices for writing
  repository security advisories](https://docs.github.com/en/code-security/tutorials/fix-reported-vulnerabilities/write-security-advisories),
  which is worth five minutes before you fill in this field. It is what version
  constraint resolution runs against; "all versions before X" prose in the
  description does not replace it. And getting these ranges right matters more than
  it used to, because Composer no longer merely *reports* your advisory. It

>   *enforces* it. Read on.

Reviewer 2: **Fixed version**: The one you're going to release

simply do not exist. [Composer
2.10](https://blog.packagist.com/composer-2-10-release/) generalized this into a
unified *dependency policy* framework that also covers packages flagged as malware
(those are blocked even during `composer install` from an existing lock file) and
abandoned packages. This machinery replaced the older `roave/security-advisories`
conflict-package approach. For the full mechanics (pool filtering, `config.policy`
configuration, ignore rules, escape hatches), see [The Bouncer in the Dependency
Resolver](https://phpunit.expert/articles/the-bouncer-in-the-dependency-resolver.html)
and Packagist's [supply chain security
update](https://blog.packagist.com/an-update-on-composer-packagist-supply-chain-security/).

For you as the advisory author, this has three practical consequences:

1. **Your advisory directly protects users, even those who never read it.** This is
   the strongest argument against fixing silently ([§5](#5.-prepare-the-fix-privately)):
   an advisory does not just inform, it actively keeps the vulnerable versions out of
   `vendor/` directories across the ecosystem.

> 2. **Over-broad version ranges cause real breakage.** Every version your advisory

Reviewer: https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/overbroad Overbroad seems not to be hyphenated.

   the [GitHub Advisory Database](https://github.com/github/advisory-database).

The flip side is worth telling your *users* about, too (in your announcement or your
documentation): with a current Composer, they are protected by default, and
`composer audit` in CI tells them when an already-locked version has since gained an
advisory.

The rest of the form:

- **Title:** one line, specific, no drama. "SQL injection in report export via
  `sort` parameter" beats "Critical security issue".
- **Description:** enough for a user to understand *whether they are affected* and
  *what to do* (upgrade to which version; workaround if one exists). Aim for the
  middle ground: too much detail hands attackers a ready-made exploit, too little
  starves the tools and the humans reading it. You do not need to include the PoC.
- **CWE:** pick the closest weakness class. The reporter's suggestion is usually right.
- **CVSS / severity:** score honestly. If required conditions lower the practical
  severity (authentication needed, non-default configuration), reflect that in the
  vector rather than in an argument in the description. If CVSS makes your eyes glaze

>   over, ask; scoring help is a two-minute favor for the Ecosystem Security Team.

Reviewer 2: I'd add that if people use LLMs, they are also good enough at scoring and that the CVSS is not nearly as important as the advisory itself.

- **CVE:** request a CVE ID through GitHub from the advisory (GitHub is a CNA and
  this is the normal path for Composer packages). Request it once you have *accepted*
  the report: not before you are sure it is valid, and not in a scramble at
  publication time. If a coordinating party such as a CNA has already reserved a CVE

>   for this issue, use *"I have an existing CVE ID"* instead of requesting a second one.

Reviewer 2: Currently requesting CVEs from GH takes weeks. We should explain when they are helpful and especially when they are not. Shipping a fix that protects users is often more useful.

- **Credit:** add the reporter (and anyone who helped) in the credits section. It
  costs you nothing and it is a large part of what makes responsible reporting worth
  a researcher's while.

## 7. Coordinate the release and publication

*You are here if: fix ready, advisory drafted, everyone in the private thread agrees.*

> Order matters. On the day you have chosen:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On the day you have chosen for your release, follow these steps:
```

1. **Merge** the fix from the private fork.
2. **Tag and release** the fixed version(s), and confirm the release actually shows
   up on Packagist before continuing.
3. **Publish the advisory.** From this moment the vulnerability is public, which is
   fine, because the fix already is too.
4. **Announce** through your normal channels (release notes, Mastodon, Discord, blog),
   linking to the advisory. Keep it factual: what the issue is, who is affected, which
   version to upgrade to.

The gap between step 2 and step 3 should be minutes to hours, not days: a public fix
without an advisory is a window in which attackers can diff your release while your
users have no warning to upgrade.

Two coordination notes:

- If the report came through a coordinator (such as the Ecosystem Security Team or a
  CNA), agree on the publication date with them in advance so CVE publication and any

>   wider announcement can happen in step.

Reviewer 2: We usually don't ask people to coordinate releases with us. If so, we'd mention that specifically. 

We don't want to stand between a report and a fix.

  Database, `composer audit` flags the vulnerable version in a test project, and
  Dependabot alerts fire where expected. If matching does not work, the ecosystem or
  package-name field is the usual suspect ([§6](#6.-write-the-github-security-advisory)).
- **Verify the blocking is not too eager:** in a scratch project, check that the
  *fixed* version and unaffected release series still install and update cleanly.
  Compare the affected-version ranges shown in the [GitHub Advisory
  Database](https://github.com/advisories) against what you wrote (they have been
  known to change during publication), and keep an eye on your issue tracker for
  "cannot install version X" reports in the first days after publishing. The
  correction path is described in [§6](#composer-blocks-the-versions-your-advisory-lists).
- **Thank the reporter** once more, in public if they are comfortable with that.
- **Check your other supported branches** one final time; it is easy to patch the
  current major and forget the LTS branch.
- **Hold a fifteen-minute retrospective with yourself:** How did this bug get in?
  Would a static analyzer, a stricter type, or a test convention have caught it? Is

>   there a *class* of similar bugs to sweep for? One structural improvement per

Reviewer: > Is there a *class* of similar bugs to sweep for?

This is usually something that should be done during analysis. Publishing an advisory puts a spotlight on the same class of issues (for humans, but nowadays also for LLMs), so you should be somewhat confident the same issue doesn't immediately reappear in a slightly different space.

  incident compounds quickly.

## 9. Improving your security posture for the long term

*You are here if: the storm has passed and you want the next one to be smaller. This
section is also the right starting point if no report has arrived yet and you simply
want to prepare.*

You do not need to do all of this in one weekend. The list is roughly ordered by
value-for-effort; even the first three items put you ahead of most projects.

**Make it easy to report to you**

1. **Enable GitHub Private Vulnerability Reporting** (repository → Settings →
   Advanced Security → Private vulnerability reporting → Enable). Without it,
   reporters must choose between emailing you cold and opening a public issue, and
   some will choose the public issue.
2. **Add a `SECURITY.md`** stating how to report (ideally: "use private vulnerability
   reporting on this repository"), which versions you support with security fixes,
   and roughly what response time to expect. Three honest sentences beat a page of
   boilerplate.
3. **Watch your own security tab.** Enable notifications for security advisories and
   Dependabot alerts on your repositories, so the next report does not sit unseen for

>    months.

Reviewer 2: I'm a bit unclear on where how to do that given you called it "security advisories and Dependabot alerts". Maybe that needs a bit of clarification what the purpose of dependabot is in that context.

   around in CI secrets or on disk.
6. **Never re-tag a released version.** If a release has a problem, ship a new
   version; do not overwrite the tag. Mirrors, scanners, and lock files already hold
   copies of the original, and two variants of "the same" version circulating is a
   mess your users cannot untangle. Packagist.org now
   [enforces this](https://blog.packagist.com/an-update-on-composer-packagist-supply-chain-security/):
   stable versions are immutable, and upstream re-tagging is detected and rejected,
   not least because silently rewritten tags were the core move in recent attacks on
   compromised packages.

**Reduce your attack surface**

7. **Delete what does not need to exist.** Every branch in your repository is a door:
   a target for pull requests that carry along modified workflow files, build
   scripts, or configuration the pipeline will happily execute. This class of attack
   is known as [Poisoned Pipeline Execution](https://owasp.org/www-project-top-10-ci-cd-security-risks/CICD-SEC-04-Poisoned-Pipeline-Execution)
   (OWASP CICD-SEC-4). A branch that does not exist cannot receive a poisoned pull

>    request, and no wall you build protects better than the door that was never built.

Reviewer: Shouldn't this be something like:

> no door protects better than the one that was never built?

   Review your branches and remove stale experiments, leftovers from old sprints,
   and "we might still need this" remnants. The same goes for unused workflows,
   third-party actions, and permissions nobody questions anymore. See [The attack
   surface begins in the
   repository](https://phpunit.expert/articles/the-attack-surface-begins-in-the-repository.html)
   for the full argument, including real-world PPE incidents from SolarWinds to
   PyTorch.

**Harden your automation**

8. **Treat your workflow files as security-relevant code.** They run with
   credentials, network access, and write permission to your repository. The five
   weakness classes that show up almost everywhere, PHPUnit's own workflows included
   (52 findings before hardening, zero after):

>    - **Template injection:** never interpolate {% verbatim %}`${{ ... }}`{% endverbatim %} expressions (branch

Reviewer: Nit: Line width was exceeded here.

     names, PR titles, and other attacker-controllable values) directly into shell
     scripts; pass them through `env:` variables instead. This is the GitHub Actions
     equivalent of SQL injection.
   - **Credential persistence:** set `persist-credentials: false` on
     `actions/checkout`, so the workflow token does not sit in `.git/config` for
     every later step (or exfiltrated artifact) to read.
   - **Unpinned actions:** pin every action to a full commit SHA with the tag as a
     comment. A floating tag like `@v4` can be repointed at malicious code by anyone
     who compromises the action, which is exactly how the `tj-actions/changed-files`
     attack reached 23,000 repositories. Let Renovate or Dependabot keep the SHAs
     current.
   - **Overly broad permissions:** set `permissions: {}` at the workflow level and

>      grant minimal scopes per job, with a comment explaining each grant.

Reviewer: The default permissions can be configured for the entire repo under:

https://github.com/{repo}/settings/actions

<img width="1117" height="417" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/2dde338d-c9ee-4976-bff5-816873585dde" />

Maybe worth noting.

   - **Unnecessary third-party actions:** if the runner's built-in tooling (e.g. the
     `gh` CLI) can do the job, drop the wrapper action. Every action is more code

>      running next to your secrets.

Reviewer: Not just more code, but also a potential supply-chain attack.

   You do not need to memorize this list: run [zizmor](https://docs.zizmor.sh/)
   against `.github/workflows`, fix what it finds, and add it to CI so regressions

>    are caught immediately. The worked example (each weakness, its exploit, its fix)

Reviewer: What does "worked example" mean? Sounds odd to my ears.

   which run with the base repository's permissions against fork contributions.
9. **Run `composer audit` in CI** so you learn about vulnerable dependencies from
   your pipeline rather than from your users, and know that with a current Composer,
   your users' resolvers block advisory-affected and malware-flagged versions of
   *your* dependencies too ([§6](#composer-blocks-the-versions-your-advisory-lists)).
   Add a static analyzer (PHPStan or Psalm) at a level that at least catches the
   classics: unvalidated input flowing into queries, file paths, or `unserialize()`.

**Build habits**

10. **Keep an isolated reproduction environment ready** ([§4](#4.-handle-proof-of-concept-code-safely)),
    so that "spin up the VM" is a two-minute routine rather than a reason to take the
    dangerous shortcut.
11. **Treat security reports as a normal category of work,** with the small process
    from this guide, rather than as emergencies. The calmer the routine, the better
    every individual case goes.
12. **Know who to call.** Which brings us to the final section.

## 10. Getting help

You never have to work through any of this alone. The **PHP Foundation Ecosystem

> Security Team** exists precisely to support maintainers like you: with triage,

Reviewer: Question: Does this continue after Volker's 6 months have concluded? Who will take over this role?

For you as the advisory author, this has three practical consequences:

1. **Your advisory directly protects users, even those who never read it.** This is
   the strongest argument against fixing silently ([§5](#5.-prepare-the-fix-privately)):
   an advisory does not just inform, it actively keeps the vulnerable versions out of
   `vendor/` directories across the ecosystem.
2. **Overbroad version ranges cause real breakage.** Every version your advisory
   covers becomes uninstallable by default, worldwide, within hours. If the ranges
   sweep in versions that were never vulnerable, users of those versions face failing
   builds, and their bug reports will land in *your* inbox. This is not hypothetical:
   for a PHPUnit advisory in April 2026, GitHub silently rewrote the carefully
   specified affected versions (`12.5.21` and `13.1.5`) into broad ranges, which made
   every older PHPUnit version uninstallable overnight, including all of PHPUnit 11,
   which was never affected. The full timeline is documented in [The Bouncer in the
   Dependency Resolver](https://phpunit.expert/articles/the-bouncer-in-the-dependency-resolver.html#a-real-world-example).

> 3. **Know the correction path.** Packagist aggregates advisories from the GitHub

Reviewer 3: Should probably also recommend using friendsofphp for non-github users or if you want your advisory to show up in Composer promptly, as GitHub is currently pretty slow to process their public database and composer *currently does not* look at the advisories on each package, but only at the reviewed GitHub vulnerabilities database which lags behind published vulns in individual repos by days or even weeks.

   advisory will tell the full story later. (Referencing the GHSA ID in the final
   commit is fine, since it only resolves to something public after publication.)
4. **Sweep for the same class of bug** before you go any further. Publishing an
   advisory puts a spotlight on that weakness class, for human readers and for the
   people pointing LLMs at your code, so you want to be reasonably confident that the
   same mistake is not sitting three files over, waiting to be found the day after
   you publish.
5. Invite the reporter as a collaborator on the advisory and let them verify the fix.
   They already have a working reproducer, so it costs them little. How much weight
   their confirmation carries is your judgement call: a researcher who handed you a
   precise reproducer is the best-qualified person to confirm the hole is closed,
   while a report generated in bulk by a tool is not.
6. Decide **which versions** get the fix. If you still support older major versions,
   users on those versions deserve a patched release too, or an explicit statement in
   the advisory that they must upgrade. Severity, the age of the older version, and

>    the effort a backport would take should all feed into that decision.

Reviewer: > the effort a backport

Small nit: What I meant rather was how much effort is require for end-users to upgrade to a new version where a fix landed. E.g. if I recently published version 2 with a huge overhaul that makes it hard for users to upgrade, it might be reasonable to create a release for version 1 even if you didn't intend to maintain that anymore.
